Welcome to this course on cameras and uncensored fusion.
My name is Andreas and I'm a professor in engineering
and an experienced professional in the automotive industry.
I am super excited to share with you my knowledge on computer vision and on cameras,
which I have gleaned from various positions with Volkswagen and with Porsche in Germany.
Now, the journey you're about to embark on is super fascinating and
I do envy you for making those first steps.
Now before we start, let's talk a little bit about why this course is important to you.
Okay. Decades ago like in the 1980s engineers at CMU
already developed a self-driving vehicle and to them it was already
clear back then that a single sensor would be way too risky which is why they
chose a camera and the LIDAR sensor for the contraption and it worked.
Well, it's somewhat worked. We have come a long way
since then and technology has really matured and
both sensor types both Camera and LIDAR are now being used
by companies all over the world to build autonomous vehicles.
The ability to drive autonomously will really
change our mobility profoundly in the very near future.
By learning and understanding this technology especially sensors,
you can be a part of this.
Now let's take a look at the things you will learn in this course.
The first is camera technology and optics.
Then we have image processing and computer vision.
Finally its sensor fusion with LIDAR and you will use your new knowledge
to really develop a cool project which is collision avoidance for vehicles.
Now let's look at those things in turn and see why they are important to you.
The first is camera technology.
Cameras are one of the main sensors in autonomous vehicles and they are the only sensors
able to interpret 2D information such as road signs or lane markings.
Also, if you look around in traffic outside,
everything is optimized for
our human visual perception and the camera benefits from this.
After decades of engineering it is safe to say that cameras are
a very mature technology but the main problem is
still that they are subject to the same drawbacks as the human eyes.
They have reduced performance in darkness and they
are bad under adverse weather conditions such as snow,
a heavy rain and other things which could happen outside.
Now the second thing you learn is a computer vision which is
the science of extracting meaningful information from camera images.
Computer vision has been researched for many decades with
first papers dating back to the 1960s and since the early 1990s,
automotive companies have started working on the first ADA systems that's
Advanced Driver Assistance systems and they could detect lane markings,
understand road signs and also locate pedestrians.
There are two broad types of computer vision you can say.
The classic science deals with feature tracking,
segmentation, 3D reconstruction and also object recognition.
Those fields are well understood and the Art of Engineering is to know
which method to use for which problem and how to choose the right parameters.
That means how to turn the right knob.
Then there's a second type of computer vision which is based on deep learning.
The idea here is to train a network which is roughly modeled
after our biological brain and then you use large amounts of
data to train it and make it understand the difference between let's
say a pedestrian and a pot of flowers or this coffee cup here.
The art with deep learning is how to select the right network for
your problem and then how to train it properly with the right data.
Now one downside of deep learning is,
that it's often hard to understand how a trained network works which
makes it really hard to pinpoint certain problems and to solve them.
Now a good engineer knows both worlds.
So he has large toolbox to choose from depending on the problem which is at hand.
This is why in this course we will look at both sides.
You will learn how to: A detect and track features using
the classic computer vision and B you will
use deep learning to locate vehicles in camera images.
Finally, we will look at sensor fusion between camera and LIDAR.
There are so many situations in traffic where a camera alone will fail.
There is darkness, bad weather,
direct sunlight and many more which make computer vision really challenging.
In such cases, a second sensor is needed to save the day so to speak.
Depending on who you ask,
this second sensor could well be a RADAR sensor,
a LIDAR sensor or a combination of both.
Interestingly, the camera is always a part of
the sensor study and your final project you will need all of
those things to build a collision avoidance system which is really
cool but also a very challenging problem.
To make this project even more realistic you will use data from
an autonomous vehicle equipped with
a forward-looking camera and the high resolution LIDAR sensor.
Now, let's start together on this exciting journey of
making a vehicle see through machine vision eyes.
Have fun exploring.